<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
			<p>There are some situations in life so unexpected, so trying, that, as far as concerns our opinion of those subjected to them, we agree, as it were, not to count them; we refuse to allow the victim’s behaviour in circumstances so exacting to weigh with us in our estimate of his or her character. We permit the great general, confronted suddenly with a mad bull, to turn and run, without forfeiting his reputation for courage. The bishop who, stepping on a concealed slide in winter, entertains passersby with momentary ragtime steps, loses none of his dignity once the performance is concluded.</p>
			<p>In the same way we must condone the behaviour of Cynthia Drassilis on opening the door of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford’s sitting-room and admitting, not Ogden, but this total stranger, who accompanied his entry with the remarkable speech recorded at the close of the last section.</p>
			<p>She was a girl who prided herself on her carefully blasé and supercilious attitude towards life; but this changeling was too much for her. She released the handle, tottered back, and, having uttered a discordant squeak of amazement, stood staring, eyes and mouth wide open.</p>
			<p>On <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford the apparition had a different effect. The rather foolish smile of welcome vanished from her face as if wiped away with a sponge. Her eyes, fixed and frightened like those of a trapped animal, glared at the intruder. She took a step forward, choking.</p>
			<p>“What⁠—what do you mean by daring to enter my room?” she cried.</p>
			<p>The man held his ground, unmoved. His bearing was a curious blend of diffidence and aggressiveness. He was determined, but apologetic. A hired assassin of the Middle Ages, resolved to do his job loyally, yet conscious of causing inconvenience to his victim, might have looked the same.</p>
			<p>“I am sorry,” he said, “but I must ask you to let me have the boy, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford.”</p>
			<p>Cynthia was herself again now. She raked the intruder with the cool stare which had so disconcerted Lord Mountry.</p>
			<p>“Who is this gentleman?” she asked languidly.</p>
			<p>The intruder was made of tougher stuff than his lordship. He met her eye with quiet firmness.</p>
			<p>“My name is Mennick,” he said. “I am <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Elmer Ford’s private secretary.”</p>
			<p>“What do you want?” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford.</p>
			<p>“I have already explained what I want, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford. I want Ogden.”</p>
			<p>Cynthia raised her eyebrows.</p>
			<p>“What <em>does</em> he mean, Nesta? Ogden is not here.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick produced from his breast-pocket a telegraph form, and in his quiet, businesslike way proceeded to straighten it out.</p>
			<p>“I have here,” he said, “a telegram from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Broster, Ogden’s tutor. It was one of the conditions of his engagement that if ever he was not certain of Ogden’s whereabouts he should let me know at once. He tells me that early this afternoon he left Ogden in the company of a strange young lady”⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick’s spectacles flashed for a moment at Cynthia⁠—“and that, when he returned, both of them had disappeared. He made inquiries and discovered that this young lady caught the 1:15 express to London, Ogden with her. On receipt of this information I at once wired to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ford for instructions. I have his reply”⁠—he fished for and produced a second telegram⁠—“here.”</p>
			<p>“I still fail to see what brings you here,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford. “Owing to the gross carelessness of his father’s employees, my son appears to have been kidnapped. That is no reason⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I will read <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ford’s telegram,” proceeded <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick unmoved. “It is rather long. I think <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ford is somewhat annoyed. ‘The boy has obviously been stolen by some hireling of his mother’s.’ I am reading <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ford’s actual words,” he said, addressing Cynthia with that touch of diffidence which had marked his manner since his entrance.</p>
			<p>“Don’t apologize,” said Cynthia, with a short laugh. “You’re not responsible for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ford’s rudeness.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick bowed.</p>
			<p>“He continued: ‘Remove him from her illegal restraint. If necessary call in police and employ force.’ ”</p>
			<p>“Charming!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford.</p>
			<p>“Practical,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick. “There is more. ‘Before doing anything else sack that fool of a tutor, then go to Agency and have them recommend good private school for boy. On no account engage another tutor. They make me tired. Fix all this today. Send Ogden back to Eastnor with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sheridan. She will stay there with him till further notice.’ That is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ford’s message.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick folded both documents carefully and replaced them in his pocket.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford looked at the clock.</p>
			<p>“And now, would you mind going, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick?”</p>
			<p>“I am sorry to appear discourteous, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford, but I cannot go without Ogden.”</p>
			<p>“I shall telephone to the office to send up a porter to remove you.”</p>
			<p>“I shall take advantage of his presence to ask him to fetch a policeman.”</p>
			<p>In the excitement of combat the veneer of apologetic diffidence was beginning to wear off <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick. He spoke irritably. Cynthia appealed to his reason with the air of a bored princess descending to argument with a groom.</p>
			<p>“Can’t you see for yourself that he’s not here?” she said. “Do you think we are hiding him?”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps you would like to search my bedroom?” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford, flinging the door open.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick remained uncrushed.</p>
			<p>“Quite unnecessary, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford. I take it, from the fact that he does not appear to be in this suite, that he is downstairs making a late luncheon in the restaurant.”</p>
			<p>“I shall telephone⁠—”</p>
			<p>“And tell them to send him up. Believe me, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford, it is the only thing to do. You have my deepest sympathy, but I am employed by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ford and must act solely in his interests. The law is on my side. I am here to fetch Ogden away, and I am going to have him.”</p>
			<p>“You shan’t!”</p>
			<p>“I may add that, when I came up here, I left <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sheridan⁠—she is a fellow-secretary of mine. You may remember <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ford mentioning her in his telegram⁠—I left her to search the restaurant and grillroom, with instructions to bring Ogden, if found, to me in this room.”</p>
			<p>The doorbell rang. He went to the door and opened it.</p>
			<p>“Come in, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sheridan. Ah!”</p>
			<p>A girl in a plain, neat blue dress entered the room. She was a small, graceful girl of about twenty-five, pretty and brisk, with the air of one accustomed to look after herself in a difficult world. Her eyes were clear and steady, her mouth sensitive but firm, her chin the chin of one who has met trouble and faced it bravely. A little soldier.</p>
			<p>She was shepherding Ogden before her, a gorged but still sullen Ogden. He sighted <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick and stopped.</p>
			<p>“Hello!” he said. “What have you blown in for?”</p>
			<p>“He was just in the middle of his lunch,” said the girl. “I thought you wouldn’t mind if I let him finish.”</p>
			<p>“Say, what’s it all about, anyway?” demanded Ogden crossly. “Can’t a fellow have a bit of grub in peace? You give me a pain.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick explained.</p>
			<p>“Your father wishes you to return to Eastnor, Ogden.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, all right. I guess I’d better go, then. Goodbye, ma.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford choked.</p>
			<p>“Kiss me, Ogden.”</p>
			<p>Ogden submitted to the embrace in sulky silence. The others comported themselves each after his or her own fashion. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick fingered his chin uncomfortably. Cynthia turned to the table and picked up an illustrated paper. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sheridan’s eyes filled with tears. She took a half-step towards <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford, as if about to speak, then drew back.</p>
			<p>“Come, Ogden,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick gruffly. Necessary, this Hired Assassin work, but painful⁠—devilish painful. He breathed a sigh of relief as he passed into the corridor with his prize.</p>
			<p>At the door <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sheridan hesitated, stopped, and turned.</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry,” she said impulsively.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford turned away without speaking, and went into the bedroom.</p>
			<p>Cynthia laid down her paper.</p>
			<p>“One moment, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sheridan.”</p>
			<p>The girl had turned to go. She stopped.</p>
			<p>“Can you give me a minute? Come in and shut the door. Won’t you sit down? Very well. You seemed sorry for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford just now.”</p>
			<p>“I am very sorry for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford. Very sorry. I hate to see her suffering. I wish <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick had not brought me into this.”</p>
			<p>“Nesta’s mad about that boy,” said Cynthia. “Heaven knows why. <em>I</em> never saw such a repulsive child in my life. However, there it is. I am sorry for you. I gathered from what <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick said that you were to have a good deal of Ogden’s society for some time to come. How do you feel about it?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sheridan moved towards the door.</p>
			<p>“I must be going,” she said. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick will be waiting for me.”</p>
			<p>“One moment. Tell me, don’t you think, after what you saw just now, that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford is the proper person to have charge of Ogden? You see how devoted she is to him?”</p>
			<p>“May I be quite frank with you?”</p>
			<p>“Please.”</p>
			<p>“Well, then, I think that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford’s influence is the worst possible for Ogden. I am sorry for her, but that does not alter my opinion. It is entirely owing to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford that Ogden is what he is. She spoiled him, indulged him in every way, never checked him⁠—till he has become⁠—well, what you yourself called him, repulsive.”</p>
			<p>Cynthia laughed.</p>
			<p>“Oh well,” she said, “I only talked that mother’s love stuff because you looked the sort of girl who would like it. We can drop all that now, and come down to business.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t understand you.”</p>
			<p>“You will. I don’t know if you think that I kidnapped Ogden from sheer affection for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford. I like Nesta, but not as much as that. No. I’m one of the Get-Rich-Quick-Wallingfords, and I’m looking out for myself all the time. There’s no one else to do it for me. I’ve a beastly home. My father’s dead. My mother’s a cat. So⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Please stop,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sheridan. “I don’t know why you are telling me all this.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, you do. I don’t know what salary <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ford pays you, but I don’t suppose it’s anything princely. Why don’t you come over to us? <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford would give you the earth if you smuggled Ogden back to her.”</p>
			<p>“You seem to be trying to bribe me,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sheridan.</p>
			<p>“In this case,” said Cynthia, “appearances aren’t deceptive. I am.”</p>
			<p>“Good afternoon.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t be a little fool.”</p>
			<p>The door slammed.</p>
			<p>“Come back!” cried Cynthia. She took a step as if to follow, but gave up the idea with a laugh. She sat down and began to read her illustrated paper again. Presently the bedroom door opened. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford came in. She touched her eyes with a handkerchief as she entered. Cynthia looked up.</p>
			<p>“I’m very sorry, Nesta,” she said.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford went to the window and looked out.</p>
			<p>“I’m not going to break down, if that’s what you mean,” she said. “I don’t care. And, anyhow, it shows that it <em>can</em> be done.”</p>
			<p>Cynthia turned a page of her paper.</p>
			<p>“I’ve just been trying my hand at bribery and corruption.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I promised and vowed many things in your name to that secretary person, the female one⁠—not Mennick⁠—if she would help us. Nothing doing. I told her to let us have Ogden as soon as possible, C.O.D., and she withered me with a glance and went.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford shrugged her shoulders impatiently.</p>
			<p>“Oh, let her go. I’m sick of amateurs.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you, dear,” said Cynthia.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I know you did your best. For an amateur you did wonderfully well. But amateurs never really succeed. There were a dozen little easy precautions which we neglected to take. What we want is a professional; a man whose business is kidnapping; the sort of man who kidnaps as a matter of course; someone like Smooth Sam Fisher.”</p>
			<p>“My dear Nesta! Who? I don’t think I know the gentleman.”</p>
			<p>“He tried to kidnap Ogden in 1906, when we were in New York. At least, the police put it down to him, though they could prove nothing. Then there was a horrible man, the police said he was called Buck MacGinnis. He tried in 1907. That was in Chicago.”</p>
			<p>“Good gracious! Kidnapping Ogden seems to be as popular as football. And I thought I was a pioneer!”</p>
			<p>Something approaching pride came into <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford’s voice.</p>
			<p>“I don’t suppose there’s a child in America,” she said, “who has had to be so carefully guarded. Why, the kidnappers had a special name for him⁠—they called him ‘The Little Nugget.’ For years we never allowed him out of our sight without a detective to watch him.”</p>
			<p>“Well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ford seems to have changed all that now. I saw no detectives. I suppose he thinks they aren’t necessary in England. Or perhaps he relied on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Broster. Poor Reggie!”</p>
			<p>“It was criminally careless of him. This will be a lesson to him. He will be more careful in future how he leaves Ogden at the mercy of anybody who cares to come along and snap him up.”</p>
			<p>“Which, incidentally, does not make your chance of getting him away any lighter.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’ve given up hope now,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford resignedly.</p>
			<p>“<em>I</em> haven’t,” said Cynthia.</p>
			<p>There was something in her voice which made her companion turn sharply and look at her. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford might affect to be resigned, but she was a woman of determination, and if the recent reverse had left her bruised, it had by no means crushed her.</p>
			<p>“Cynthia! What do you mean? What are you hinting?”</p>
			<p>“You despise amateurs, Nesta, but, for all that, it seems that your professionals who kidnap as a matter of course and all the rest of it have not been a bit more successful. It was not my want of experience that made me fail. It was my sex. This is man’s work. If I had been a man, I should at least have had brute force to fall back upon when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick arrived.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford nodded.</p>
			<p>“Yes, but⁠—”</p>
			<p>“And,” continued Cynthia, “as all these Smooth Sam Fishers of yours have failed too, it is obvious that the only way to kidnap Ogden is from within. We must have some man working for us in the enemy’s camp.”</p>
			<p>“Which is impossible,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford dejectedly.</p>
			<p>“Not at all.”</p>
			<p>“You know a man?”</p>
			<p>“I know <em>the</em> man.”</p>
			<p>“Cynthia! What do you mean? Who is he?”</p>
			<p>“His name is Peter Burns.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford shook her head.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know him.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll introduce you. You’ll like him.”</p>
			<p>“But, Cynthia, how do you know he would be willing to help us?”</p>
			<p>“He would do it for me,” Cynthia paused. “You see,” she went on, “we are engaged to be married.”</p>
			<p>“My dear Cynthia! Why did you not tell me? When did it happen?”</p>
			<p>“Last night at the Fletchers’ dance.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford’s eyes opened.</p>
			<p>“Last night! Were you at a dance last night? And two railway journeys today! You must be tired to death.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’m all right, thanks. I suppose I shall be a wreck and not fit to be seen tomorrow, but just at present I feel as if nothing could tire me. It’s the effect of being engaged, perhaps.”</p>
			<p>“Tell me about him.”</p>
			<p>“Well, he’s rich, and good-looking, and amiable”⁠—Cynthia ticked off these qualities on her fingers⁠—“and I think he’s brave, and he’s certainly not so stupid as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Broster.”</p>
			<p>“And you’re very much in love with him?”</p>
			<p>“I like him. There’s no harm in Peter.”</p>
			<p>“You certainly aren’t wildly enthusiastic!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, we shall hit it off quite well together. I needn’t pose to <em>you</em>, Nesta, thank goodness! That’s one reason why I’m fond of you. You know how I am situated. I’ve got to marry someone rich, and Peter’s quite the nicest rich man I’ve ever met. He’s really wonderfully unselfish. I can’t understand it. With his money, you would expect him to be a perfect horror.”</p>
			<p>A thought seemed to strike <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford.</p>
			<p>“But, if he’s so rich⁠—” she began. “I forget what I was going to say,” she broke off.</p>
			<p>“Dear Nesta, I know what you were going to say. If he’s so rich, why should he be marrying me, when he could take his pick of half London? Well, I’ll tell you. He’s marrying me for one reason, because he’s sorry for me: for another, because I had the sense to make him. He didn’t think he was going to marry anyone. A few years ago he had a disappointment. A girl jilted him. She must have been a fool. He thought he was going to live the rest of his life alone with his broken heart. I didn’t mean to allow that. It’s taken a long time⁠—over two years, from start to finish⁠—but I’ve done it. He’s a sentimentalist. I worked on his sympathy, and last night I made him propose to me at the Fletchers’ dance.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford had not listened to these confidences unmoved. Several times she had tried to interrupt, but had been brushed aside. Now she spoke sharply.</p>
			<p>“You know I was not going to say anything of the kind. And I don’t think you should speak in this horrible, cynical way of⁠—of⁠—”</p>
			<p>She stopped, flushing. There were moments when she hated Cynthia. These occurred for the most part when the latter, as now, stirred her to an exhibition of honest feeling which she looked on as rather unbecoming. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford had spent twenty years trying to forget that her husband had married her from behind the counter of a general store in an Illinois village, and these lapses into the uncultivated genuineness of her girlhood made her uncomfortable.</p>
			<p>“I wasn’t going to say anything of the kind,” she repeated.</p>
			<p>Cynthia was all smiling good-humour.</p>
			<p>“I know. I was only teasing you. ‘Stringing,’ they call it in your country, don’t they?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford was mollified.</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry, Cynthia. I didn’t mean to snap at you. All the same⁠ ⁠…” She hesitated. What she wanted to ask smacked so dreadfully of Mechanicsville, Illinois. Yet she put the question bravely, for she was somehow feeling quite troubled about this unknown <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burns. “Aren’t you really fond of him at all, Cynthia?”</p>
			<p>Cynthia beamed.</p>
			<p>“Of course I am! He’s a dear. Nothing would make me give him up. I’m devoted to old Peter. I only told you all that about him because it shows you how kindhearted he is. He’ll do anything for me. Well, shall I sound him about Ogden?”</p>
			<p>The magic word took <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford’s mind off the matrimonial future of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burns, and brought him into prominence in his capacity of knight-errant. She laughed happily. The contemplation of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burns as knight-errant healed the sting of defeat. The affair of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick began to appear in the light of a mere skirmish.</p>
			<p>“You take my breath away!” she said. “How do you propose that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burns shall help us?”</p>
			<p>“It’s perfectly simple. You heard <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick read that telegram. Ogden is to be sent to a private school. Peter shall go there too.”</p>
			<p>“But how? I don’t understand. We don’t know which school <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mennick will choose.”</p>
			<p>“We can very soon find out.”</p>
			<p>“But how can <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burns go there?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing easier. He will be a young man who has been left a little money and wants to start a school of his own. He goes to Ogden’s man and suggests that he pay a small premium to come to him for a term as an extra-assistant-master, to learn the business. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Man will jump at him. He will be getting the bargain of his life. Peter didn’t get much of a degree at Oxford, but I believe he was wonderful at games. From a private-school point of view he’s a treasure.”</p>
			<p>“But⁠—would he do it?”</p>
			<p>“I think I can persuade him.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford kissed her with an enthusiasm which hitherto she had reserved for Ogden.</p>
			<p>“My darling girl,” she cried, “if you knew how happy you have made me!”</p>
			<p>“I do,” said Cynthia definitely. “And now you can do the same for me.”</p>
			<p>“Anything, anything! You must have some more hats.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t want any more hats. I want to go with you on Lord Mountry’s yacht to the Riviera.”</p>
			<p>“Of course,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford after a slight pause, “it isn’t my party, you know, dear.”</p>
			<p>“No. But you can work me in, darling.”</p>
			<p>“It’s quite a small party. Very quiet.”</p>
			<p>“Crowds bore me. I enjoy quiet.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ford capitulated.</p>
			<p>“I fancy you are doing me a very good turn,” she said. “You must certainly come on the yacht.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll tell Peter to come straight round here now,” said Cynthia simply. She went to the telephone.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
